So far, we have learned
about one-dimensional FFT and its application in calculating the range of the target.
But using the same signal,
how do we determine velocity of the target?
This is where 2D FFT comes into the picture.
Going back to where we left the range FFT,
we calculated the range by implementing
the first FFT across all the samples and columns for each.
Now subsequently, another FFT is implemented.
This time, it is along the rows of the first FFT results.
This operation measures the shift in the phase across
multiple charts which in return gives the Doppler frequency shift,
hence resolving the velocity of each target.
As you can see after implementing the first FFT,
two targets are detected as they occupy the complete range pins.
On running the second FFT operation,
the targets are resolved in both range and Doppler.
The beauty of the two-dimensional FFT is,
it directly produces an image for radar's perception.
As you can see in the image,
the y-axis has a range of the target.
The x-axis has the Doppler velocity with zero velocity in
the center such that
all the stationary targets are centered in the middle of the spectrum.
The targets that appear on the negative Doppler are approaching
targets and the ones on the positive Doppler are the receding targets.
The color intensity here reflects the strength of the return signal.
Higher the color intensity could mean
closer target or a target with a bigger radar cross section.
Check this out. This is a rotated version of the range Doppler map.
We just saw in the previous image.
This video was captured while demonstrating meta-phase long-range radar.
Here, we are directly capturing a road
seen by running a two-dimensional FFT on the radar's received signal.
Isn't it mesmerizing to see instantaneous range and velocity measurements?